.TH FEX.CONF 5 "November 4, 2004"
.SH NAME
fex.conf \- file exchange daemon configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
The behavior of \fBfexd\fP will be controlled through its configuration file.
By default, this is /etc/fex.conf.
.SH FILE FORMAT
A configuration file looks as follows:
.RS
.nf
# this is a comment
// this is a comment
/*
 * this is also a comment
 */

port = 3226
ssh_user = fex
accept_keys = yes
create_user = yes

watchpoint /var/shared/domain1 {
   # local connection
   import {
      server    = file_server
      port      = 3025
      name      = domain1
      translate = me2domain1
   }

   # over the internet
   import {
      ssh       = yes
      server    = localhost
      gateway   = file_server.domain1.com
      port      = 3025
      name      = home
      translate = me2domain1
   }

   exclude = { "*/.*", "*.bak" }
   include = { "*/important/*.bak" }
   export = domain1
   readonly = no
}

translate me2domain1 {
   uid(1000, 1001)
   gid(1000, 1001)
}

include("/etc/fex_domain2.conf")
.fi
.RE
A configuration file has several global otions, sections and functions. Options
are of the form \fBoption=value\fP. Value can be either a simple
string (number) or a list of the form \fI{ value1, value2, ...,
value<n> }\fP. Sections are of the form \fBclass identifier { options
}\fP. Functions are of the form \fBfunc(arg1, arg2, ..., arg<n>)\fP

.SS SECTIONS
The following global sections will be recognized:
.TP
.BI watchpoint " path" " { options and sections }"
Defines the file data to synchonize. \fBfexd\fP monitors the whole directory tree 
under \fIpath\fP. 

.TP
.BI translate " name"
A translation table for user ids and group ids. In the example above
the user id 1000 on the client becomes the user id 1001 on the server.

.TP
The following sections will be recognized within the section \fBwatchpoint\fP:

.TP
.BI import 
This section is used on the client site to connect to a server. The
options inside the section define the server to connect. There may be
multiple \fBimport\fP sections within one \fBwatchpoint\fP, to specify
alternate servers. \fBfexd\fP tries all \fBimport\fP sections in the given
order until it is able to connect to a server.


.SS OPTIONS
The following global options will be recognized:

.TP
.B port
The port \fBfexd\fP listens for incomming connections. The default
value is 3025. A port value of 0 disables listening.

.TP
.B ssh_command
Path of the ssh command. The default value is /usr/bin/ssh.

.TP
.B ssh_user
Adminstrative user for fex. Under this account the server should
accept ssh connections.  The default value is fex

.TP
.B accept_keys
If set to yes, a \fBfexd\fP-Client sends its ssh authorization key to
the server and the server inserts it under
ss_user/.ssh/authorized_keys. This option is for the following
scenario: A fileserver can be directly reached through the internet
over ssh and internally over port 3025. When a computer is first
connected over the intranet it also transmits its authorisation
key. Therefore the computer can reach the fileserver also over ssh
with no additional configuration. The default value is yes.

.TP
.B create_user
If set to yes, creates the ssh_user if it doesn't exist. The default value is yes.

.TP
The following options will be recognized within the section \fBwatchpoint\fP:
.TP
.B exclude
A list of file patterns to exclude from monitoring
.TP
.B include
A list of file patterns to include for monitoring
.TP
.B export
The export name for the \fBwatchpoint\fP. On the client side this name has to be specified as
the \fBname\fP-option inside the \fBimport\fP section.
.TP
.B readonly
If set to yes the server will not accept files from the clients. If a file is changed
at the client, the server will resynchronize the file.
.TP
The following options will be recognized within the section \fBimport\fP:
.TP
.B server
The name or the ip-address of the server.
.TP
.B port
The port to connect to the server.
.TP
.B name
The export name of the server watchpoint
.TP
.B translate
The name of a translation table
.TP
.B ssh
If set to yes, the connection will be established through ssh tunneling.
.TP
.B gateway
The ssh host a \fBfexd\fP-Client tries to connect to. 


.SS Functions
The following global function will be recognized:
.TP
.BI include ("filename")
Includes the content of \fIfilename\fP in the current configuration.
.TP
The following functions will be recognized within the section \fBtranslate\fP:
.TP
.BI uid ("client_user_id" , " server_user_id")
Maps a user id of \fIclient_user_id\fP on the client to the user id
\fIserver_user_id\fP on the server.
.TP
.BI gid ("client_group_id" , " server_group_id")
Maps a group id of \fIclient_group_id\fP on the client to the group id
\fIserver_group_id\fP on the server.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fexd (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Reithinger <mreithinger@web.de>.


	
