.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" fexd is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH FEXD 8 "November 4, 2004"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins (default)
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fexd \- file exchange daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fexd
.RB [ -dvglID ]
[ \fB-c\fP \fIconfig_file\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfexd\fP is a disconnected network file system very similar to
intermezzo (and not so similar to coda). In contrast to these two
\fBfexd\fP needs no kernel modules to operate. \fBfexd\fP replicates
shared files on all computers in the network.  When a disconnected
computer is reconnected \fBfexd\fP reintigrates all changes an
synchronizes the network with the reconnected computer. Unlike coda
\fBfexd\fP has no explicit authentication and authorisation mechanism.
.SS Conflicts
A conflict can arise when two disconnected sites change a file. After
reconnection two different versions of the same file exist. \fBfexd\fP
resolves conflicts by renaming one of the conflicting versions:
\fIfilename.ext\fP becomes \fIfilename-<revno>.ext\fP where
\fI<revno>\fP is the revision number of the backup starting with 1.
.SS SSH Tunneling
If two sites are connected over an unsecure line. \fBfexd\fP can be 
configured to automaticly use ssh tunneling. \fBfexd\fP uses key authentication
for connecting a ssh server. 
.SS UID and GID Translation
If the user ids and group ids differ for the same user at different sites.
\fBfexd\fP is able to translate these ids.
.SS File locking
\fBfexd\fP only supports locks on the whole file. If one site locks a file, 
the lock will be distributed over the network. If a site gets disconnected
while holding a lock the lock will be released.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBfexd\fP accepts the following options:
.TP
.BR -d ", " --debug
Do not deamonize, print messages to stdout. Repeating this 
options increases the message level.
.TP
.BR  -v ", " --verbose
Be verbose, write messages to the syslog. Repeating this options 
increases the message level.
.TP
.BR  -l ", " --no-locks
Disable lock, detection mechnism. If you do not need 
lock distribution over the network you can can turn on 
this option, because the detection mechanism is can be expensive.
.TP
.BR  -I ", " --no-inotify
Dont use the inotify mechanism to detect file changes.
.TP
.BR  -D ", " --no-dnotify
Dont use the dnotify mechanism to detect file changes.
.TP
.BR  -c ", " --config " "\fIconfigfile\fP
Read configuration information from \fIconffile\fP. 
.TP


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fex.conf (5).

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Reithinger <mreithinger@web.de>.
